documentation/Introduction.md, before:

# Introduction

## Why this documentation ?

WebRTC...

Behind this word is hidden a strong technology that allows browsers to call each other and so that bring into life a lot of video applications. From the first "chat roulette" application, to the most sophisticated ones that put in relation a patient and a doctor, a teacher and his students, an IOT device to a AI bot, all are using WebRTC to bring the video between peers.

## Adopted (with hurts)

WebRTC is a technology that exists since 2012 and that has been little by little adopted by application makers.

WebRTC lets you build application in which users will be able to have discuss using voice and video as well as to share their screen or to record the calls. So today, there is no limit for application's makers to propose collaboration and social applications "in live" with two or more participants.

Even if now, WebRTC has been largely adopted by browsers and platforms, in the past, this as been different. It tooks time, sometime like in a "drama" or "triller" movie with some betrayals, surprises and come-backs, to reach that level. Concurrency between browsers vendors was fierce during some years. But as for other technologies before, the reason and the fact that some organizations like the **W3C** succeeded to gather and federate the protagonists, allowed this technology to emerge and to be adopted today by a lot of developers.

## Objectives

The objectives of that documentation are multiple.

First, I want to share my knowledge and continue to progress by discovering some "hidden parts" in order to develop the best applications I can. And secondly, I want to share my personal advices because often a technical documentation gives you only an "academic" training or an overview but never a return of experiences. I want to share some of them to let you understand the bad and complicated points I overcomed.

So, don't be surprise to find sections called _Recommendation_ . This is where I share my own experience. But remember, this is only some advices. Sometimes, they will match with your cases but sometimes not. But in all cases, I hope that they will help you understanding how to do.

In fact, I would like to write the **WebRTC: the good parts** :-)

## Audience

I written that documentation for Web developers without any knowledge of **WebRTC**. I tried to explain that technology with _common_ terms. Don't hesitate to complete the reading by other sources you can find on Internet. The [Mozilla Resources site for Developers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/) and the [WebRTC.org](https://webrtc.org/) web sites are two great sources of information. But others exist, just make a search...

## Me

I'm a french developer based near Strasbourg in France. I developed a lot of applications based on WebRTC since 2012. Sometimes, for me, just to understand how it works and often for my company. I think I have reach a first level of understanding. That documentation will help me to go deeper.

## English wordings

English is not my mother tongue. I think you already seen that point...

Don't hesitate to help me fixing some **English's issues** by proposing some **language** merge-requests. Your help will be really appreciated!

Commit message:

Use blockquotes instead of recommendations

documentation/Introduction.md, after:

# Introduction

## Why this documentation ?

WebRTC...

Behind this word is hidden a strong technology that allows browsers to call each other and so that bring into life a lot of video applications. From the first "chat roulette" application, to the most sophisticated ones that put in relation a patient and a doctor, a teacher and his students, an IOT device to a AI bot, all are using WebRTC to bring the video between peers.

## Adopted (with hurts)

WebRTC is a technology that exists since 2012 and that has been little by little adopted by application makers.

WebRTC lets you build application in which users will be able to have discuss using voice and video as well as to share their screen or to record the calls. So today, there is no limit for application's makers to propose collaboration and social applications "in live" with two or more participants.

Even if now, WebRTC has been largely adopted by browsers and platforms, in the past, this as been different. It tooks time, sometime like in a "drama" or "triller" movie with some betrayals, surprises and come-backs, to reach that level. Concurrency between browsers vendors was fierce during some years. But as for other technologies before, the reason and the fact that some organizations like the **W3C** succeeded to gather and federate the protagonists, allowed this technology to emerge and to be adopted today by a lot of developers.

## Objectives

The objectives of that documentation are multiple.

First, I want to share my knowledge and continue to progress by discovering some "hidden parts" in order to develop the best applications I can. And secondly, I want to share my personal advices because often a technical documentation gives you only an "academic" training or an overview but never a return of experiences. I want to share some of them to let you understand the bad and complicated points I overcomed.

So, don't be surprise to find blockquotes parts at the end of paragraphes. This is where I share my own experience. But remember, this is only some advices. Sometimes, they will match with your cases but sometimes not. But in all cases, I hope that they will help you understanding how to do.

In fact, I would like to write the **WebRTC: the good parts** :-)

## Audience

I written that documentation for Web developers without any knowledge of **WebRTC**. I tried to explain that technology with _common_ terms. Don't hesitate to complete the reading by other sources you can find on Internet. The [Mozilla Resources site for Developers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/) and the [WebRTC.org](https://webrtc.org/) web sites are two great sources of information. But others exist, just make a search...

## Me

I'm a french developer based near Strasbourg in France. I developed a lot of applications based on WebRTC since 2012. Sometimes, for me, just to understand how it works and often for my company. I think I have reach a first level of understanding. That documentation will help me to go deeper.

## English wordings

English is not my mother tongue. I think you already seen that point...

Don't hesitate to help me fixing some **English's issues** by proposing some **language** merge-requests. Your help will be really appreciated!
